## Equity Advocate Information

### Implicit Bias Reminders

We are all influenced by implicit bias, or the stereotypes that unconsciously
affect our decisions. When judging, our implicit biases negatively impact
students who are traditionally marginalized and disenfranchised. Before writing
comments or making a decision, please take a moment to reflect on any biases
that may impact your decision-making process. If you have not already, please
take the [Implicit Bias Training](https://forms.gle/SH3D7dSyirzYX6TV7).

### NCFL Harassment & Discrimination Policy

The National Catholic Forensic League (NCFL) is committed to providing
participants, judges, coaches, and volunteers the opportunity to pursue
excellence in their endeavors. This opportunity can exist only when each member
of our community is assured an atmosphere of mutual respect. The NCFL prohibits
all forms of harassment and discrimination. Accordingly, all forms of
harassment and discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, gender
identity or expression, sexual orientation, marital status, citizenship,
national origin, age, disability, genetic information, or any other
characteristic protected by any applicable federal, state, or local law are
prohibited, whether committed by participants, judges, coaches, volunteers,
and/or observers. The NCFL reserves all rights to subject violators to the full
range of sanctions, up to and including removal from the tournament premises
and referral to appropriate authorities. Any individual or group of individuals
who believe they have been a victim of harassment and/or discrimination should
report it to an Equity Advocate or appropriate authority immediately.

· Any tournament participant, including students, coaches, judges, and
observers, who believe they have been the subject of harassment and/or
discrimination in violation of the NCFL Harassment and Discrimination policy
are encouraged to contact an equity advocate and report the alleged violation.

· Please note: Equity Complaints should be brought to the committee if someone
feels they have faced discrimination or harassment, while Rules Protests should
be filed if someone is in violation of competitive event rules.

### Open Door Policy at the NCFL Grand National

The NCFL is committed to providing safe performance spaces for all competitors
and judges. We acknowledge the art of advocacy through performance and debate
may be a healing process and/or opportunity to speak on important topics. It is
impossible to know all the ways in which content or a performance or debate may
unintentionally harm or trigger members of the audience. To better serve our
competitors, we will be honoring an open door practice during all rounds.

The open door policy means competitors and other audience members may choose to
leave or stay in a room when a performance negatively impacts their wellbeing.
Competitors may discreetly leave the room (e.g., before, during, or after
someone’s performance) without question or penalty. Judges may also take steps
to protect their well-being by contacting the Tab Room or Equity Office before
or after a performance.

We recognize that putting mental and physical well-being above community norms
is imperfect but important work.

### A Note on Content Warnings

Over the last few years, there have been many important and necessary
conversations in our activity about the role content warnings (sometimes called
"trigger warnings") should play in the speech and debate space. These
conversations are still ongoing as the community works toward developing norms,
standards, and best practices to make speech and debate the most educational,
productive, and safe space it can be for all members of our community.

Please note that at this time, the NCFL does not have any policy mandating
content warnings in any of our events.

That said, we recognize that words are powerful and can impact our audience in
ways we do, and sometimes do not, intend. If competitors would like to
optionally give content warnings, that is permitted and encouraged as a
thoughtful good practice.

· As a best practice, content warnings should:

    - Be relatively short in nature (1-2 sentences), and highlight the
      potentially sensitive content appropriately. 
    - In debate, before the beginning of the speech in any offtime roadmap. 
    - In speech, at the start of the performance. Note, content warnings in
      speech should count as part of the timed performance. ·

Deployment should be similar to what we are all used to with TV Parental
Guidelines prior to the start of a show on network TV.

> Example: "Today's presentation involves discussion of gun violence in schools
> and coarse language." 

The intent here is to allow audience members who cannot listen to these types
of arguments for their own deeply personal reasons to be able to remove
themselves as appropriate prior to the presentation beginning.

· In the event that there is a concern about the content of a speech, please
refer to the Open Door Policy or contact an Equity Advocate.

### Contacting an Equity Advocate

· You can contact an Equity Advocate directly by filling out this form: [NCFL
Equity Concern Reporting Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSciqY_9YNl_Iw36jZxe8NuhCqxgPDdDOZ_Pd0xEJPtTIXO3Gw/viewform?usp=sf_link)

· You can text (919) 964-0018 and ask to speak to an Equity Advocate.
· You can also email [ncflequityadvocates@gmail.com](email) and ask to speak to
an Equity Advocate.
